# Receipt Hog


**Receipt Hog** is an application which basically rewards you for the money you spend. It can be shopping trips or eating-out. It is a free application owned by InfoScout who uses the customer data for market research to know the habits of the customers. They then provide these data to multiple brands who come to know what the customer buying trend is and how they can launch sales to benefit more. This method of collecting data from users in exchange for incentives, like gift cards for amazon or cashback for PayPal, is interesting. In this application, we must upload our bills, whether they are shopping trips or restaurant bills. We will then get some coins for our uploaded receipts and we can convert those coins to amazon gift card or transfer them to our bank account. Hence, we get back some amount for all our spending. We also get extra spins for the receipts we upload through which we can earn extra coins and 1 lucky winner every day also gets their most recent shopping trip paid for. Multiple surveys pop up in the application at various times, which then reward more coins if you complete those surveys. I am from India, and for me every dollar I save here is an achievement. Also, I many times misplace my receipts due to which if I had to return an item I was stuck as I didn’t have my receipt. But now I don’t have to worry about that as this application saves all my receipts and I can use them whenever I want. Hence, I liked the concept of this application as it gave me some cashback for the amount I spend, and I can at least save some money.  The interface of this application is very user friendly and you can easily understand what the features of this application are. Also, the application is very addictive as you get coins, you get spinning the wheel for the receipts you upload so you keep on checking your application on whether you have received the spins or not. And, as your coins can get converted to real money in the end, you have an incentive to keep using this application. If you are lucky enough, you can have your latest shopping trip expense completely paid for. And you are eligible for sweepstake if you upload your receipts regularly and you then stand a chance to win 5000 coins. As you earn coins and upload more receipts, the level goes up and the amount of rewards and incentives keep on increasing. Thus, they have converted this application into a gaming dynamic which will hold the user’s interest. One of the major things which I feel can discourage users from continuing to use this application is the huge amount of time it takes for them to earn enough coins to cash-out in the form of amazon gift cards or PayPal. It needs 1000 coins for a 5$ cash-out which is the minimum amount. And to earn 1000 coins can take a lot of shopping trips due to which users can discontinue using it. People nowadays don’t have a lot of patience or time to wait for weeks or months to earn just 5$ reward. Thus, I think the developers should keep more rewards at lower coins also to keep the users interested and motivated to continue to use this application which can then attract a greater number of users. Overall, I think this application is worth a try if you want to save some money and of course, its free so there is no harm in exploring this application for once.

# G Pay (Google Pay)

**G-Pay**, previously known as Android Pay, is a Google payments application. It allows you to store cards and pay directly from your phones in the stores. It is a fast and secure method of payment. In this application, you can store your debit cards, credit cards, gift cards, and any loyalty cards which you have. All the cards can be stored in one place. The application just asks for a picture of the card and it will retrieve all your details. It then takes you to your banking site sign-in page to sign in and verify your card. Once the card is verified, it is ready to use anywhere you want it. You can use them physically at the stores which support Google Pay or you can even use it during online checkout of cart without using plastic cards. You now don’t need to carry any plastic cards in your wallet. Your phone is now your wallet. The ease of use of this application and the way it makes my life simpler as I don’t have the tension to carry any plastic cards in my wallet. Even if I forget my wallet somewhere, I can pay using my phone as we people always keep our phones with us. I liked the concept of this application and the way it simplifies the lives of people. People always love the applications which makes their life simpler and less complicated. They want stuff to be as simple as possible because they are already stressed out with the amount of work they have in their offices that they don’t want to spend time to understand the working of an application. If the application is simple to understand and will save their time they will use the application. This application satisfies all these criteria; hence people will use it. Also, as it is from Google, and Google has a reputation, so be assured that the application is legit and has all the security features to protect your information. In fact, it does not share your actual card details with the store when you use g Pay, it creates a Virtual Card Number which is shared with the stores. So, your card details are safely protected with multiple layers of security features. This application works on Near Field Communication technology. You need to have a smartphone which supports NFC and Tap & Pay facility to use G Pay. Another interesting feature is that it works even in Airplane mode or without internet connection. We just have to use NFC and we can pay anytime we want even without internet. But, if our phone dies, we are basically stuck if we don’t have any backup plastic cards with us. So, we always need to keep our phone charged to be able to use this facility safely, otherwise we need to keep some backup option with us. Also, if we are trying to pay for something and suddenly the software crashes due to some bug in the application, we are stuck. We are at the mercy of the software. Another thing which I think the developers can improvise is that instead of keeping two separate applications for payments and recording expenditures and splitting the bills, they can integrate that into one application, so that it supports extensive functionality and users are more attracted to use this application as it supports 2-in-1 functionality. Overall, this application is very useful for all age groups as every person has some type of card for making payments and must carry them everywhere. Keeping phones safe is far easier than keeping wallets safe, hence there are less chances of any mishaps happening if we use our phones to pay.


